Semester Project: Applied Linux Programming & Scripting
Project by: Rebecca Axelrod

My hypothesis for this project was to see if antidepressants are more common in more populated populated areas, of ages 65
years and older.

The way I originally wanted to go through with this was to do through Medicaid data, but later realizing the data would not
be applicable since the latitude and longitude it gave me where the prescription was given was the same longitdue and
latitude for a state, so would't help me specify certain areas by a zipcode.

I then decided to go through Medicare data, and my hypothesis would specifically be for 65 years and older. The fields that
I need from that file was the specific prescriptions that are antidepressents. So I did my research of different
antidepressants that I made a list of in a file. I then made a file to extract those records as well as the npi number with
it.

Once I had my antidepressant and npi number extracted. I needed to find the zipcode connected to that npi number. So I went
though a data set that gave me a zip code for each npi number. I wanted to see if the npi number for the antidepressant is
in this file of npi and the zip code, and if so then send that zip code with that antidepressant. I also tallied how many
time that npi number came up, so I can keep a tally of how many times antidepressants were given per zip code.

I then had the number of antidepressants per zip code. But I needed to get the population for that zipcode to later find
the per capita. I used a data set that had population per zip code specifically 65 years and older that was as well the
same year as the Medicare data. I tried to find the zip code corresponding to how many antidepressants to this data set to
get the correspond zip code and the population. Then I send the results of how many antidepressants and the population for
that zipcode.

After all that, I have all my data and results to find the end result. I had to find the per capita. I took the number of
antidepressants divided by the population and then multiply that by 100 to get the per capita in percent. When looking at
the percentages of how many antidepressants in a given area, they were low, the highiest around 2.8 percent. The decimals
are long to be able to represent the small difference in percentage to understand where more antidepressants are given.

The graph.pdf is made through mattedPlots in graph.py which represents my results.
Since there is an outlier for a huge population, I made another graph clearGraph.pdf which will help spread
the results by not having the outlier. clearGraph.py has an if stament to make sure the population is less
then 40000, then plot the results.

The conclusion is that the lower population have more of a higher per capita of antideprresents the higher populated aread of ages 65+.
This isn't as surprising when thinking there is a lot more socializion and transportation, etc in more populated areas making life easier
and happier.